descarteslabs/workflows/docs/types/numpy.rst, before:

.. _numpy-functions:

Numpy Functions
---------------
Workflows provides equivalents to some NumPy functions through the ``workflows.numpy`` module, for use on the Workflows :class:`Array <descarteslabs.workflows.types.array_.Array>` type. Supported functions are listed here.

Use of these docstrings is subject to the `NumPy license <https://numpy.org/license.html>`_.

.. currentmodule:: descarteslabs.workflows.types.numpy

.. autosummary::
  add
  subtract
  multiply
  divide
  logaddexp
  logaddexp2
  true_divide
  floor_divide
  negative
  power
  float_power
  remainder
  mod
  conj
  conjugate
  exp
  exp2
  log
  log2
  log10
  log1p
  expm1
  sqrt
  square
  cbrt
  reciprocal
  sin
  cos
  tan
  arcsin
  arccos
  arctan
  arctan2
  sinh
  cosh
  tanh
  arcsinh
  arccosh
  arctanh
  deg2rad
  rad2deg
  greater
  greater_equal
  less
  less_equal
  not_equal
  equal
  logical_and
  logical_or
  logical_xor
  logical_not
  maximum
  minimum
  fmax
  fmin
  isfinite
  isinf
  isnan
  signbit
  copysign
  nextafter
  spacing
  fmod
  floor
  ceil
  trunc
  degrees
  radians
  rint
  fabs
  sign
  absolute
  transpose
  concatenate
  histogram
  reshape
  stack

.. autofunction:: add
.. autofunction:: subtract
.. autofunction:: multiply
.. autofunction:: divide
.. autofunction:: divide
.. autofunction:: logaddexp
.. autofunction:: logaddexp2
.. autofunction:: true_divide
.. autofunction:: floor_divide
.. autofunction:: negative
.. autofunction:: power
.. autofunction:: float_power
.. autofunction:: remainder
.. autofunction:: mod
.. autofunction:: exp
.. autofunction:: exp2
.. autofunction:: log
.. autofunction:: log2
.. autofunction:: log10
.. autofunction:: log1p
.. autofunction:: expm1
.. autofunction:: sqrt
.. autofunction:: square
.. autofunction:: cbrt
.. autofunction:: reciprocal
.. autofunction:: sin
.. autofunction:: cos
.. autofunction:: tan
.. autofunction:: arcsin
.. autofunction:: arccos
.. autofunction:: arctan
.. autofunction:: arctan2
.. autofunction:: sinh
.. autofunction:: cosh
.. autofunction:: tanh
.. autofunction:: arcsinh
.. autofunction:: arccosh
.. autofunction:: arctanh
.. autofunction:: deg2rad
.. autofunction:: rad2deg
.. autofunction:: greater
.. autofunction:: greater_equal
.. autofunction:: less
.. autofunction:: less_equal
.. autofunction:: not_equal
.. autofunction:: equal
.. autofunction:: logical_and
.. autofunction:: logical_or
.. autofunction:: logical_xor
.. autofunction:: logical_not
.. autofunction:: maximum
.. autofunction:: minimum
.. autofunction:: fmax
.. autofunction:: fmin
.. autofunction:: isfinite
.. autofunction:: isinf
.. autofunction:: isnan
.. autofunction:: signbit
.. autofunction:: copysign
.. autofunction:: nextafter
.. autofunction:: spacing
.. autofunction:: fmod
.. autofunction:: floor
.. autofunction:: ceil
.. autofunction:: trunc
.. autofunction:: degrees
.. autofunction:: radians
.. autofunction:: rint
.. autofunction:: fabs
.. autofunction:: sign
.. autofunction:: absolute
.. autofunction:: concatenate
.. autofunction:: transpose
.. autofunction:: histogram
.. autofunction:: reshape
.. autofunction:: stack

Commit message:

Workflows: NumPy guide (#6519)
GitOrigin-RevId: 30d942a2611b7d5ecc21cbba4d76c771d2de5bdc

descarteslabs/workflows/docs/types/numpy.rst, after:

.. _numpy-functions:

Numpy Functions
---------------
Workflows provides equivalents to some NumPy functions through the ``workflows.numpy`` module, for use on the Workflows :class:`Array <descarteslabs.workflows.types.array.Array>` type. Supported functions are listed here. For more information, see the :ref:`Workflows guide <workflows-numpy-guide>`.

Use of these docstrings is subject to the `NumPy license <https://numpy.org/license.html>`_.

.. currentmodule:: descarteslabs.workflows.types.numpy

.. autosummary::
  add
  subtract
  multiply
  divide
  logaddexp
  logaddexp2
  true_divide
  floor_divide
  negative
  power
  float_power
  remainder
  mod
  conj
  conjugate
  exp
  exp2
  log
  log2
  log10
  log1p
  expm1
  sqrt
  square
  cbrt
  reciprocal
  sin
  cos
  tan
  arcsin
  arccos
  arctan
  arctan2
  sinh
  cosh
  tanh
  arcsinh
  arccosh
  arctanh
  deg2rad
  rad2deg
  greater
  greater_equal
  less
  less_equal
  not_equal
  equal
  logical_and
  logical_or
  logical_xor
  logical_not
  maximum
  minimum
  fmax
  fmin
  isfinite
  isinf
  isnan
  signbit
  copysign
  nextafter
  spacing
  fmod
  floor
  ceil
  trunc
  degrees
  radians
  rint
  fabs
  sign
  absolute
  transpose
  concatenate
  histogram
  reshape
  stack

.. autofunction:: add
.. autofunction:: subtract
.. autofunction:: multiply
.. autofunction:: divide
.. autofunction:: divide
.. autofunction:: logaddexp
.. autofunction:: logaddexp2
.. autofunction:: true_divide
.. autofunction:: floor_divide
.. autofunction:: negative
.. autofunction:: power
.. autofunction:: float_power
.. autofunction:: remainder
.. autofunction:: mod
.. autofunction:: exp
.. autofunction:: exp2
.. autofunction:: log
.. autofunction:: log2
.. autofunction:: log10
.. autofunction:: log1p
.. autofunction:: expm1
.. autofunction:: sqrt
.. autofunction:: square
.. autofunction:: cbrt
.. autofunction:: reciprocal
.. autofunction:: sin
.. autofunction:: cos
.. autofunction:: tan
.. autofunction:: arcsin
.. autofunction:: arccos
.. autofunction:: arctan
.. autofunction:: arctan2
.. autofunction:: sinh
.. autofunction:: cosh
.. autofunction:: tanh
.. autofunction:: arcsinh
.. autofunction:: arccosh
.. autofunction:: arctanh
.. autofunction:: deg2rad
.. autofunction:: rad2deg
.. autofunction:: greater
.. autofunction:: greater_equal
.. autofunction:: less
.. autofunction:: less_equal
.. autofunction:: not_equal
.. autofunction:: equal
.. autofunction:: logical_and
.. autofunction:: logical_or
.. autofunction:: logical_xor
.. autofunction:: logical_not
.. autofunction:: maximum
.. autofunction:: minimum
.. autofunction:: fmax
.. autofunction:: fmin
.. autofunction:: isfinite
.. autofunction:: isinf
.. autofunction:: isnan
.. autofunction:: signbit
.. autofunction:: copysign
.. autofunction:: nextafter
.. autofunction:: spacing
.. autofunction:: fmod
.. autofunction:: floor
.. autofunction:: ceil
.. autofunction:: trunc
.. autofunction:: degrees
.. autofunction:: radians
.. autofunction:: rint
.. autofunction:: fabs
.. autofunction:: sign
.. autofunction:: absolute
.. autofunction:: concatenate
.. autofunction:: transpose
.. autofunction:: histogram
.. autofunction:: reshape
.. autofunction:: stack
